(gunshot, francis groans)
Agent finley.
Secret service.
Have you found the kids?
(applause)
I was the star witness
for the gibson show.
He came out of there a hero
_ Who almost died
saVIng the preSIdent's son.
And we don't have
a smgle piece
Of hard evidence
against him.
Alicia dutton
is thought to have taken
The last remaining hostage,
beth ann gibson.
What does
francis gibson do
7'0 get his daughter back?
Francis:
Maybe we could
help each other.
What does widener want
With the kidnappers' money?
To turn your men against you.
Dunn:
Still won't
talk about it?
Not a word of what
went on in there.
Amber...
Your aunt susie's here.
Dunn:
Beth ann gibson!
Where is she?
Sold her.
Dunn:
Who has her?
Is it widener?
Don't know.
Screw it...
(gunshots)
(sirens approaching)
Dunn:
She was here.
Before he died, gibson's
number one confirmed.
Beth ann gibson
was here.
Where is she now?
Gone.
Whoever's gonna use gibson
has her now.
We're not gonna find
Gibson's daughter in time.
He's at a vigil for beth ann
At the ballard school.
Go there now and
take him into custody.
I do not want to see
what francis gibson does
To get his daughter back.
Into custody on what charge?
Use the patriot act
if you have to,
Just get him off the street
And into an interrogation room.
Yes, sir.
(door opens)
(choir singing)
Potus is at ballard.
We need to get him out of there.
Why is he there
with gibson?
I'm on the line with
secret serVIce now.
Yes, this is
agent marcus finley.
Please use my voice match
For verification.
I need to alert potus overwatch,
status red.
(singing)
(distorted voice):
Tomorrow, you will do something
That even you
could not have imagined.
You will get the president
And the first lady
to ballard school
And then, in front of the world,
You will confess to the
kidnapping of those children.
You will bring proof
of what you have done.
You used those parents
as weapons.
Now it's your turn.
You will go to ballard on Sunday
And you will self-destruct.
You will do this,
Or your daughter will die.
What did
they say?
What do they
want you to do?
Janice, do you want
to get beth ann back?
Of course.
You know that I do.
Then trust me.
(door opens)
francis.
Confess.
To what?
For
what?
Nothing to confess.
Did what I had to do.
I'd do it again.
Self-destruct?
(groans)
(phone chirps)
(beeping and trilling)
(audience applauding)
Ballard principal:
Ladies and gentlemen,
The president and the first lady
of the United States.
Mr. President.
(indistinct talking)
(choir singing)
I called in a threat.
Why haven't you shut this down?
You think I want our boss
out there With gibson?
Potus wants to stand
next to him
And there's not a damn thing
any one of us can do about it.
You put on
extra agents?
Yes. Swept the
building three times.
I read the reports
on mr. Gibson.
Nothing's
happening in here
We don't want
happening in here.
No way he gets any explosive
or a gun in here.
Not tonight.
But, finley, this is
happening right now.
I know.
Look, we just
want to ask
Mr. And mrs. Gibson
a few questions.
Okay? We'll get them
back out there by
the end of the song.
Secret service goes.
Fbi, you stay here.
He'll bring 'em
Back to you.
We found the people
who took your daughter.
They're both dead.
Oh, my god.
Beth ann?
Still missing.
Whoever took her
paid for her.
Somebody bought
my daughter?
I'm sorry.
Why are you
looking at him?
He's my husband.
Have you received any calls?
No.
Did your husband
receive a phone call?
No.
You husband knows
Who has beth ann,
doesn't he, mrs. Gibson?
No, how could he?
Do you trust your husband?
They're dead.
You need to be more specific.
The people who used
to work for you.
Someone shot dutton,
Then we shot the redhead.
We are gathered here tonight
to unite in spirit.
You didn't find
my daughter?
My guess: Widener has her.
And he's gonna use you
like you used those parents.
Use you against
The man who denied his pardon.
My wife and I...
Stand with the man
who gave us our child back.
I'm sure ex-director widener
Is not happy about
a long prison term.
And he might have my daughter.
But I'm surrounded
by secret serwce agents.
What could I possibly do?
You look at the president
the wrong way, I will end you.
Mr. And mrs. Gibson, please...
Stand with us.
Side by side...
I need to go now.
...To show those
who would do us harm
That we are united.
Thank you,
mr. President.
I believe beth ann can feel
our thoughts and prayers.
I want to say just one thing
To the people
who have our daughter:
I love beth ann,
Even more so after
what we went through.
But like our president,
if you call me,
If you ask me to do anything...
...I will say no.
I love my daughter, but...
I will say no.
Now we light these candles...
Finley...
Yeah, I know.
You checked out
those candles?
Those candles were
brought in by us.
Francis:
...For the one _
we hope to see again.
You need_to shut this down
right now.
You do it or I will.
Soft exfil go.
Francis:
They left in a hurry.
That's too bad.
They didn't have a chance
to light a candle for beth ann.
I wonder
if you would.
It would mean the world to me.
Bill...
Hmm?
Who has their
daughter?
I don't know.
Widener?
He's fishing in montana,
Surrounded by lawyers,
waiting for his trial.
He's still dangerous, isn't he?
Yeah.
Oh, my god, that poor woman...
Mrs. Gibson...
Her daughter's still out there,
after all of this...
And her husband, he...
Honey, you all right?
Bill?
Is that my blood?
Julia?
Julia!
The first lady was just rushed
to bethesda naval hospital
With what appears
to be a stroke.
She's in_ critical
condition.
And the president?
Kyle?
They're with her.
They've both been checked out;
Neither appears
to be ill.
What happened
at that school?
How'd you do it?
Do what, agent dunn?
The first lady is
in a hospital bed.
How did you put her there?
What do the
doctors say?
A stroke.
(sighs)
Makes sense.
The pressure
she's been under...
Her son was taken all that time,
Then to see him
nearly executed...
The strain on that
poor woman's system...
H can understand.
You're enjoying this,
aren't you?
Why would you
say that?
My daughter is missing.
I sit day and night,
Waiting for that terrible call.
A parent has been stricken ill.
Why would I enjoy that?
You enjoy the attention.
Being in the center of it all,
_The control
it gives you.
You don't want to be the bug
anymore, do you, mr. Gibson?
See that, mr. Gibson?
She's fbi. She's been
trained to get in your head
To see
what's in there.
I'm secret service.
I had a different
kind of training.
(gasping)
What did you do
to the first lady?
I'll forgive this because you
saved my life in that fire.
But don't ever touch me again.
What the hell was that?
I asked him to do it.
You asked him to do it?
To push him hard.
I had to see.
In that fire when gibson asked
for my help, he'd lost control.
Now he has it back.
Whatever is
happening now,
Francis gibson
wants it to happen.
Mrs. Devore.
Gibson.
Thank you.
Let's say that
that man in there put the
First lady in the hospital.
Why make flotus the target?
Who benefits from her death?
That's not the question
that we should be asking.
What is?
How does targeting
the first lady
Help gibson get
his daughter back?
Potus and kyle,
They are still
at the hospital?
Yes.
You want to question
the president?
No.
He wants to
question his son.
(computer trilling)
(beeps)
(phone chirps)
How's your mother doing?
In surgery.
There's bleeding in her brain.
They're trying
to get it to stop.
Why are you two here?
Kyle, there's a possibility
That what's happening to your
mother had an outside factor.
The tv interview
you did with mr. Gibson,
He whispered something
in your ear.
What did he say?
I told the other agents
that right after.
He said we had to be
strong for beth ann.
But he asked you
to do something, didn't he?
Yes.
And you did it...
Because he saved you,
and because
He's beth ann's dad.
It was nothing, really.
So I...
What did you do, kyle?
I made my parents come
to the school tonight.
And you told them
it was your idea?
Yes.
But it wasn't, was it?
He asked me to get my parents
to the vigil.
To show support for beth ann.
Did I do something wrong?
My mother taught me
to sing "happy birthday"
Twice in my head
while I'm washing my hands.
To do it long enough.
I taught my daughter that.
He made me get my mother there.
Is he the reason she's sick?
Did I help him hurt my mother?
(sighs) thank you.
I feel refreshed now.
After all, it's been
a long night.
If gibson is bad...
What about hurst?
Hurst was pointing a gun
at gibson.
Was it to protect me?
Was hurst trying to protect me
when I shot him?
Did I murder hurst?
No. Gibson did that.
Kyle, look at me.
Gibson made that happen,
not you.
There.
Freeze it there and enhance.
Your hands, mr. Gibson,
You don't mind
if we swab them, do you?
I can get a warrant
if I have to.
I have nothing to hide.
Dad?
She...
She loved you very much.
No.
I'm sorry.
Flotus has passed.
I repeat:
I'll tell olsen.
(phone rings)
I-I guess he already knows.
It's finley.
I understand.
We're coming in now.
Finley...
What?
What is it?
It's amber...
She's missing.
The monitoring equipment
and alarms at meg's house
Were disabled
from the inside.
Someone who knew the codes
turned them all off.
Your sister's security staff?
They've all been brought in
for questioning.
Meg...
I was on my way to see julia,
And before I even got
to the hospital,
My best friend was dead
and amber was gone.
It's happening again, isn't it?
I don't think
it ever ended, ms. Fitch.
I'm sorry,
But I have to ask you,
with your daughter gone,
Have you received a call?
Have they asked you
to do anything?
No.
But I'm not the only
ballard mother in this room.
Finley:
If the kidnappers knew that,
they would have
Used it already.
The kidnappers?
We know who this is.
Where is gibson, susie?
Are you watching him?
Would it be possible to get
something to eat?
I've been here
a while. And maybe
A paper to read
to pass the time?
(computer trilling, beeps)
It's possible
they could be lured away.
You need to keep her close.
I understand you believe
your son is in his room asleep,
But I need you to go in there,
Turn on the light
and confirm that.
I'll hold while you go do it.
As a precaution, we're asking
That you don't let her out
of the house for now.
No ballard kids other than amber
have been reported missing?
We're still locating them all.
A lot of the parents took
their kids away
After they were released.
How many still
unaccounted for?
18 of the original kidnapped.
We've just begun to check
the school at large.
Over 300 students
at that high school.
Amber ﬁtch swiped
her atm card
At a downtown location
20 minutes ago.
She took out $500.
You don't take amber fitch
for $500.
Pull _the bank's
surveillance tape.
Dunn...
Your sister in there,
is she lying about
Not getting a call
from the kidnapper?
No. I don't think so.
But?
But meg's been traumatized
by this, too.
Her daughter was taken.
Meg herself was
severely beaten.
Sir, we weren't
close before this.
I honestly have no idea
What this has done
to her.
Tech:
I have the atm image.
That's amber.
But if she's being forced
to take out money,
Why is she alone?
She isn't. See that shadow?
Stop.
Who is she with?
Tech:
No way to see his face.
Let it play. Let's see
what happens next.
Dunn:
This isn't a kidnapping.
See the way he's touching her
right there?
I do. Not forced.
They know each other.
Another ballard student?
I don't know.
Check the facebook pages
of the ballard students.
They're gonna post
that they're on the run?
No, I think one of their
classmates' mother just died.
They'll all post condolences.
Unless they're busy doing
something else.
I'll start
with kyle's page.
The only two who
didn't post are...
Amber ﬁtch
and ian martinez.
What if they weren't taken?
What if they got a call?
What if it's the kids
Being used this time
instead of the parents?
Put a bolo _out
on ian martinez.
Nothing yet?
No.
You texted
you got the cash, right?
Yes.
Amber,
beth ann's my best friend.
It was easy for me
to say yes to that text.
Why did you?
Because...
She's still out there,
So it's still happening.
(phone chirps)
Let me see your phone.
Yeah, same text.
Why would they want us
to go there?
(buzzing)
I have a bad tooth,
so I'm gonna stick
To soft foods for a while.
I don't know ian martinez,
And I don't know why
amber would be with him.
Where is gibson?
I told you, meg, we have him
Here in fbi;
he's not going anywhere.
Maybe amber ran away.
We used to do it, too,
when it got bad at home.
Things have been bad, susie.
(sirens wailing distantly)
What you need? (sniffs)
An eighth of the mk.
Mk?
You sure you can handle that?
Yeah, I can handle it.
Where'd he go?
Do you see him?
No.
I'm scared.
Yeah, me, too.
Maybe I should get out,
go and see.
No.
Maybe, maybe we're not going
to save beth ann.
Maybe they brought us here
for something else.
What should we do?
Are we supposed to look inside?
It didn't say.
Do it, open it.
Go on.
Are these to ransom beth ann?
Text them and see where
we should take them.
(buzzing)
We just got a hit on
ian martinez's car.
Is amber still with him?
No eyes on the kids yet,
But the car is parked
on | street southeast.
Something's happened.
Is it amber?
Look, just go home
and sit tight.
I'll call you as soon
as I know something.
Susie, whatever she's
being made to do,
You have to save her from it.
(beeping)
Yes, why?
There's only two.
You guys are open late?
We never close.
I need the third dressing room.
Well, that's gonna cost you.
(sighs)
I'm supposed
to give this to you, too.
Text that I gave you
the box.
Ian.
Radio newscaster: _
Though the white house Cited
natural causes
For the death
of first lady julia devore,
We now have unconfirmed reports
The fbi has taken francis gibson
into custody.
What if we have to stop her?
Don't go there.
We have aimed our guns
At a lot of parents, finley.
What if they're making amber
do something,
And we have to stop her?
I don't know no beth ann!
Mace him again.
Mace him again, ian!
Where is she?
(coughing, doorbell dings)
Federal agents!
Put the gun down!
It's amber. Don't shoot.
(buzzing)
(phones ringing)
You seeing this?
Good news, mr. Gibson.
You're getting
out of this room.
Where am I going?
We're taking you somewhere
To ask you some questions
in a way
That we can't ask you here.
Enhanced interrogation.
Bingo.
Turns out, we don't like people
killing the first lady.
I understand.
I'm ready to go.
(coughing)
What is going on here?
He maced me,
and she took my gun!
Why did you do that, amber?
Can you take the mask off?
No, you put these on when
you need to hurt people.
What's going on in here, ian?
He knows where beth ann is.
We both got a text
That told us to come here,
And we saw those masks,
And we're not _
getting taken again.
We're gonna get beth ann back.
Hey, I don't know no beth ann.
Itold him!
You need the mask, amber,
So you can do what you have
to do to get beth ann back?
Yes.
Well, that's our job.
So why don't you
give me the gun?
Get down!
What took you so long?!
I got him.
Bad tooth, it's killing me.
Least of your worries.
That's true.
It is. Someone has my daughter.
You know we're
federal agents.
The best thing for you to do
Is just go ahead
and put that gun down.
Don't think I can do that now,
This being a third strike state.
Amber, there's gonna be
some shooting now.
If you don't want that gun
in your hand to go off,
I suggest you take your finger
off the trigger.
(gunshots)
(whimpering)
it's okay.
Amber?
I'm gonna take this now, okay?
Okay.
(crying)
Aunt susie,
I am so sorry.
It's okay, it's all right.
You're all right.
Can you tell me why you're here?
We came to help beth ann.
Help her how?
We both got texts.
Told us to get a box.
It was filled with diamonds.
Bring it here.
We thought
if we did that, then...
You'd help get beth ann back.
Did we fail?
Is she gonna die?
Meg's not answering.
Dunn, you need to see this.
It's amber's phone.
There's a text on it
Meant for that guy on the floor.
"the diamonds pay to kill
the boy and hold the girl."
The diamonds weren't ransom.
Those masks are here
Because this store
supplied gibson.
He wanted amber alive to use.
Puts pressure on her mother.
Yeah, it does.
So does killing julia devore,
Meg's best friend.
That puts pressure on her, too.
Gibson wants something
from your sister.
No.
He wants someone.
Finley,
Meg has beth ann.
(phone rings)
Francis: What happened
to your friend, the first lady,
Was on you.
You made that happen, not me.
Why would you have wanted that
to happen?
When I saw you take
that bullet for lqle,
I knew who you were,
What you were capable of.
I knew in that moment
That the fbi
would never get you.
So you took my daughter,
and this is what happens.
You did this.
You made this happen.
Where did you send amber?
No.
Tell me that you killed
your best friend.
Say it, bitch.
I killed my best friend.
Now you get my daughter,
bring her to me.
Do it yourself.
I'll call in an hour
and tell you where.
Pull over.
You and finley
killed those men,
Aunt susie.
I killed
a man, too.
In that place.
I didn't know.
I didn't tell my mom.
I couldn't.
I was hoping maybe you
could tell her for me.
Sure.
Yeah, sure,
I-I'll tell your mother.
Finley:
Dunn.
Just give me one minute, okay?
Sure.
Did they find meg?
No.
Gibson slipped
his escort.
We lost him.
Dunn:
What did meg say before?
"we used to
do it, too.
When it got
real bad at home."
Dunn...
Dunn!
Where_are
you g0ing?
I can't
tell you.
You can't tell me?
Let go
of me.
What are you doing?
I know where she is.
I know where meg
would have put beth ann.
You can call it in.
No. She's doing this
To get back at gibson
Because of what he did to amber.
Because of what he did
to all of us.
Maybe that's why she did it,
But we are the law,
dunn, you know that.
I know we're the law,
but she's my sister
And she needs me,
and I need you
To turn your back and let me go.
Okay, finley?
Can you do that?
You know I can't.
Because you're the law?
No.
Because I'm your partner.
You're gonna come with me?
As far as you need.
Dunn:
It’s Where we hid as kids...
As little girls.
When our parents' screaming
Got too loud.
It’s Where we ’0' go and pretend
Everything was gonna
be a// right.
I've got her!
She's here!
I'm going in
to get her right now.
Ms. Fitch...
(muffled gunshots)
When did you know it was me?
When I stood across from you.
I didn't come to your house
to find out about widener.
I came to find
out about you.
Is she in there?
Yes.
But I wouldn't go in there
if I were you.
Why not?
I don't think you'd like
What I've done to your daughter.
(muffled gunshot)
(groans)
Bet that hurt.
Now I'm gonna go in there,
And if something happened
to my daughter,
I'm gonna come out here
and I'm gonna run you over
With your fancy car.
Beth ann:
’,’oage 96.
”when the president says no
to the demand,
”bring ky/e into the kitchen.
"after I'm shot,
free tory hurst.
"set the mansion
on fire.
Go through the tunnels.
Disable the mines..."
This is your handwriting.
I know it.
16 years of birthday cards,
Beth ann, they made me
write those things.
They forced me.
I must be such a disappointment
To you as a daughter.
Why would you say that?
Because I'm so stupid...
To not have seen you
for what you are.
They made me do
those things.
To protect you.
No. It was you.
You took us.
You killed jin liao.
No one made you!
No.
You made all
those parents
Do those horrible things.
What did you make mom do?
This page doesn't
prove anything.
No, it doesn't,
But the gun you're
pointing at me does,
Daddy.
Amber...
We have her.
Where's gibson?
Inside.
He's with
his daughter.
For you.
I-I took all those kids for you.
I killed that boy for you,
because I love you,
Because I needed
to protect you.
That's what fathers do.
Beth ann:
You love me?
Francis:
Come on now,
it's time to go.
We need to go.
No. Everything I hate
about myself is you!
Francis:
I can't have this.
Beth am:
I am not g0ing
anywhere with you,
You freak.
I can't have this!
Just do it.
(sniffs)
just do it.
(sobs)
Mr. Gibson, that's
your daughter there.
So why don't you let
her come over here,
Away from
that gun?
Beth ann and I have to go.
Put down the gun
and we'll all go.
She and I...
We can't be here.
I have a plan.
It won't hurt,
I promise.
And then
it'll be over.
Beth ann...
Look at him.
He shot that boy
in the back.
He couldn't look
him in the eyes.
Look at your father,
beth ann.
Do it now.
Good-bye.
(gunshot, beth ann screams)
(groaning)
it's all right.
It's all right.
Francis gibson,
You're under arrest.
What for?
For the murder of the man
You killed earlier,
For the shooting of my sister
And the attempted murder
of your own daughter.
But you're a parent.
You understand why
I did what I did.
Agent:
Fbi!
Agent 2:
In here!
I feel your knife
as it goes right in
cut to my core
but I'm not bleeding
all that you say
trying to make me small
well, the bigger you get
the harder you fall
you use your words
as a weapon, dear
but your blades
don't hurt when
you have no fear
you think that you're deep
under my skin
you're trying to keep me
suffering
you wanted me to find you.
you use your words
as a weapon
In case it went bad.
I knew you'd come looking.
It's kidnapping, meg.
What you did.
But you got him, susie.
You got gibson.
you use your words
as a weapon, dear...
Last item _on
gibson's list.
"my family
reunites...
And I go home."
you think that you're deep
under my skin
you're trying to keep me
suffering...
I took all those kids for you.
I k/i/ed that boy for you,
because I love you,
Because I needed
to protect you.
It’s what fathers do.
I'll shed no tears.
(beeping and trilling)
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.ngh.Org